Let's turn towards our back-end code.
Now we get post data which also includes a file and our cloud function here, so our Node code here
isn't prepared to handle that.
Now we can adjust it to do so though.
Now right now, we as I just said get JSON data,	we'll need a package basically which automatically
extracts incoming form data for us.
Thankfully there is a package we can easily install by navigating into the functions folder in our project
folder and there running npm install --save to store an entry in package.json,
the name is formidable.
Now formidable is a nice package which makes it easy for us to access the data enclosed in form data
reaching our server and you can use that on your Node Express server of course as well because cloud
functions use just that behind the scenes.
We'll also need a way of storing incoming files on the cloud storage of Firebase, here.
Now we can't use that admin package we already use to access the database,
that just doesn't give us access to storage.
The Firebase storage behind the scenes just uses the Google Cloud storage, so we can use the cloud storage
helper here,
so let's install it,
it's
@google-cloud/storage and no worries,
this may now looks super complicated,
it isn't, it's really doable,
we can get there,
so let's install that too.
These are two packages I need for now,
so let's hit enter and let's install them and we won't need to write much code to get there,
no worries.
And just to repeat this, of course if you have your own server with your own Node Express application, you
can use any approach and any storage you like, store it wherever you like on your server, on AWS S3,
wherever you want to store your stuff.
So with these packages installed, let's go into the index.js file in the functions folder and let's pull
them in.
I'll start with formidable which I import by requiring formidable and setting up the Google cloud actually requires
a little config variable, we can quickly generate though. So I'll place it here, config,
maybe gcconfig to make clear what we're using it for.
This will be a Javascript object where I need to have the project ID for which I want to set up
Google cloud,
so the Google cloud package for which I want to use it and project ID simply is a string being your Firebase
project ID, which you can find for example here,
this part, that's your project ID.
You also find it under project settings, here Project ID.
So we take that and enter it here as a project ID, it should just be a string of course and then you also
need to specify the key file name which holds your access to your account basically
and with that, I mean this file.
So the convenient thing is we just copy the file name without ./ at the beginning, just the file name, it will
find it automatically and we enter that here as
second value. This is actually all,
now with that, I'll implement or import Google Cloud storage, I'll name the variable gcs and I import it by requiring
@google-cloud/storage, this exports a function we immediately execute and we pass config to that
function.
So now gcs is an initialized Google Cloud Storage package which allows us to conveniently access it
and since Firebase just uses Google Cloud storage
behind the scenes, this accesses our Firebase storage
in the end. So now we get access to everything we need,
the next step is inside our function to get access to the data we're receiving.
So inside this course wrapper here, I want to extract my incoming form data. I'll name it form data here
and we extract it by calling new formidable,
keep in mind formidable refers to that variable which imports that package. So new formidable.incomingForm
is a method we execute,
this is a helper which allows us to automatically fetch it from the incoming request,
that's very convenient.
We can then use this form data
we just set up to call parse and pass that request in there so that it can get that form from the request.
The second argument is a callback it will execute once it's done.
Here we get a potential error and then all the fields and files it could extract and fields are
just everything but files.
So now we can use that data,
so inside this callback we can now start reaching out to our database and so on.
First of all, I want to move that incoming file from the temporary storage to another temporary storage,
for that I'll import the fs package by simply requiring fs, that's a default Node package,
that's why we don't have to install it,
it's already installed since we have Node on our machine
and then we can access fs rename and pass the old path which we can get from the files we got. There
the file is the only file we get, file here by the way refers to the name we set up on the front-end
here,
so if you have file here as a name for the file you attached to the post data, you need to use file here
too
and then the path. That's the path where it is stored automatically once it's uploaded and I'll use it
to /tmp,
so tmp, that's a path available on Google cloud functions or Firebase cloud functions to be precise
plus files, file name to keep the file name. So that just moves it temporarily, we'll permanently move it
into a bucket, into a bucket of that cloud storage.
So for that, I'll set up a bucket here, get access to it through gcs bucket
and this simply takes the bucket name as an input.
Now we use Firebase,
so we already have a default bucket,
if you click on storage, that's the bucket name after gcs//,
that's your bucket name
and there already is something in the bucket I uploaded earlier,
you can delete that of course.
So that's the bucket name,
let's now add this here to that bucket or to that bucket command as a string and this will give us access
to that bucket through the cloud storage package.
Now we can use that initialized bucket and call upload and there we simply pass the path to the file,
so tmp plus files, file name and yes you could of course used that default path,
this was just the security mechanism to make sure it doesn't clean it up in-between or something like
that.
So now I'm uploading this onto cloud storage as a second argument to the upload function here,
we pass some configuration. So this conflagration is a Javascript object where we can for example
define the upload type and here it's media because it's an image file.
We can also set up some metadata
and that interestingly enough takes another metadata property with some file metadata,
so here you could say it's metadata for the upload
and one of the metadata fields is the metadata for the file
and here we can set up the content type which is files, and then the file and then type, all provided by formidable,
all these utility functions here and I want to pass
one other thing here. I want to make sure that I get a download URL by which I can easily access
this even if I'm not a Google Cloud user which of course probably none of our users are going to be
or very little.
So therefore, we need to generate a public download URL, Firebase does this by default if we use
the Firebase SDK
but we can't use that on the server unfortunately.
So we'll have to generate this on our own and thankfully, the algorithm used by Firebase is really easy
to do.
All we have to do here is, we can pass some extra metadata, the Firebase storage download tokens and that
has to be a unique ID string. To generate it, we can simply install a package.
We do this with npm, so
let me clear this, npm install --save in the packages uuid-v4.
Now install that and once it is installed in your index.js file, you can import it here at the top, I'll
name it
UUID,
all capital case but it's optional, import that package
and before we use it, we need to initialize it.
Now I'll do this here right
inside cors, I'll set up
uuid,
lowercase
equals UUID, executed like that.
Now UUID is a unique ID which we can simply pass here,
we can use it anywhere inside our function now and by passing this metadata, Firebase will automatically
generate such a download URL for us, that's the convenient thing, just needs that unique ID.
So now we're uploading this and this request will already do the upload,
one other argument we now have to pass to this function is a callback function which will be executed
once this either fail or succeed,
so here we either get an error or the uploaded file. If we don't have an error
and of course you probably want to handle a potential error, here I'll only log it but if you don't have
an error, I want to reach out to my database and basically execute all that code I had there before.
Unfortunately we're a bit entering callback hell here but it's still OK,
unfortunately not a lot of packages are using promises here. I'll now cut all that code where we add something
to the database and add it inside this do we have or hopefully we don't have an error if check because
this will be executed whenever we uploaded a file and I need information about that file upload when
I reach out to the database.
There, we also need to adjust our code.
We no longer use request body,
we use fields instead.
Keep in mind, formidable gives us access to the fields here
and that simply is everything but the files
and then the field names are the names we defined in our service worker when we sent the fetch request
with the post data.
So I'm basically referring to the names we set up here, ID, title, location and so on.
So we get this set up, we're pushing this new element here where we get the data from the incoming request.
The image is not correct though, this now needs to be the URL to this newly created image
and as I said, Firebase creates a link for us automatically.
This link follows the following pattern,
it's always https://firebasestorage.googleapis one word, .com/v0/b,
for bucket probably, slash
then we enter something, the bucket name, so bucket
here again is referring to that bucket object we set up with Google Cloud storage and it has the name since
we passed it here.
So the bucket name +/o, for object and then encode URI component, a default function
we can use here in Javascript, file name.
Keep in mind, file is the file returned in this function by the upload helper method,
so this is the file which was uploaded. Now by using this,
we're almost there,
we need to chain more though, we need to chain a query parameter,
so questionmark at the end of the URL, alt equals media to indicate that it's a media type and now this is
important, token equals and now UID.
So this unique ID we also passed here, we add it here with the token key.
So this cryptic looking URL is what Firebase will generate as a publicly accessible URL automatically
since we passed this metadata and here I'm just making sure that this URL gets stored in the database
too.
Now with that, all the rest of our code should still work fine, here where we continue working,
the only thing we need to adjust the down there where I returned the ID, that's now
fields ID of course,
I no longer request body. But with that, that should all works fine,
well I guess we'll see if it works fine
if we now deploy it and then test it.
Now let's do this and fix any potential errors of which we hopefully have none in the next lecture.
I'll start deploying it by simply going back to my main project and then running Firebase deploy and
it will upload the updated cloud function to Firebase
and of course do the same with your own server implementation if you work it out right now,
definitely upload it and whilst I'm saying that, this is failing because config is not defined, makes
a lot of sense,
I named this config for google cloud
gcconfig,
so let's pass it to this initialization of the Google Cloud storage too, gcconfig. So little mistake,
now let's try this again,
Firebase deploy hopefully will work.
You saw it checks your code before it uploads it which isn't too bad
and once it is done, I'll see you in the next lecture to test this.